Aware Brain Computer Interface

With the introduction of VR comes various opportunities to operate systems in augmented reality. This opens doors for many virtual opportunities with low risk and enhanced convenience such as practising surgical operations, launching a office space at home, real estate tours at home, observing forest fires from a birds eye view, and much more. Conducting work in these augmented realities provide the benefit of low risk, low expense, and convenience. However, the downside of VR is that the 360 display can be intrusive and distracting. A major distraction stems from the display of control elements when users are in an internal attentional state. Vortmann and Putze provide a solution that includes the use of EEG and eye tracking data. Using this set of data they constructed a system that can differentiate the external and internal state of user attention. This gives them control to create a system that responds only when the user is identified to be in an external attention state. They name this improved system as the attention-aware system. Based on the seven users who tested out the model they conclude that the attention-aware system improved usability of augmented realities. If more augmented reality systems can incorporate the attention-aware ability then more users can benefit from working with these augmented reality systems.

[Article](https://dl.acm.org/doi/abs/10.1145/3334480.3382889?casa_token=PeXqOdS8WTMAAAAA:IE10QQwbCh6SA04yTA37kpmGtfttUkCLi20SY7zBmyzSTqKfoQImyjpgaEKgdOx5fDkoEUx-LSE-)
