# Neuroscience approach to ADHD & improving focus

In this podcast, Dr. Huberman addresses the issue of ADHD showing up in adults. This is due to the frequent context switching that occurs in our smart phones that increases our attentional "blinks''. He also covers behavioral training protocols to help improve focus for both people with and without ADHD across all ages. Dr. Huberman discusses the role dopamine plays to improve focus. In particular, the way it coordinates default mode and task related neural networks. 

## Signs of ADHD in adults
Attentional blinks are lapses in attention that occur right after an intense focus session. It is the pause after achieving a goal that results from intense focus. Dr. Huberman provides the Waldo example: once you finally find Waldo your focus would pause (attentional blink) and would miss another Waldo that might be right beside the one you found. People with ADHD have much more frequent attentional blinks; this is because they are over focusing on certain elements and would miss others.  
A smart phone increases context switching rapidly within one's attentional window. To accomodate this rapid increase a person would dilate their attentional window. This induces ADHD in adults who have shown no previous signs of ADHD. To avoid inducing ADHD or a general decrease in attentional capacity, adults need to use their phone less than 60min a day. This seems like a very unreasonable demand for many. However, reducing time spent on a smartphone is necessary to improve focus because the brain cannot efficiently deal with constant context switching. This diminishes the brain's capacity to deeply focus on any other task.  

## 15min focus enhancement
There are two modes of processing in the visual system. One mode creates high levels of attention that causes, what Dr. Huberman refers to as 'soda straw view'. In this mode a person is focused on one item and all others will land in their blind spot. The other mode is panoramic vision. In this mode the person dilates their gaze and allows the person to thin slice time and thus observe in slow motion. This allows the person to see a lot more and expand their focus. Therefore, a person can improve their focus by consciously expanding and contracting their gaze. 
The panoramic view in vision can also be applied to the mind. Studies have shown that sustaining a panoramic state in a person's mind for 15min significantly reduce the number of attentional blinks. In turn this would improve a person's focus. The practise involves sitting with eyes closed, focus on breathing and one's internal state, to no direct the mind to any place, and if the mind drifts to bring it back. This is very similar to meditation. This practise reduces the amount of visual information and focuses on one's internal state for 15-17min and therefore would permanently improve one's visual focus. 

## Hyper-focus and dopamine
People with ADHD are capable of focusing on tasks they greatly enjoy and are curious about. This is the effect of dopamine. Dopamine leads to a high state of focus, contracts the visual world, promotes exteroception (focusing on one's environment), and instills a state of motivation. This chemical plays a role to coordinate two states of mind: default mode network and the task related network. The default mode network is responsible for idle behaviour, the task related network is responsible for goal oriented behaviour. In a person without ADHD, the two networks will alternate activation. ADHD and lack of sleep causes the two networks to activate simultaneously. Dopamine helps coordinate the two networks to enforce alternate activation between the two. Therefore people with ADHD are drawn to stimulates that increase levels of dopamine because they notice the stimulates would aid their focus. 

[Podcast](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hFL6qRIJZ_Y)
